We got a Russian dressing.
This is tasting delicious, wow.
Did I fool them?
Welcome to "Mythical Kitchen,"
where dreams become food.
A portion of today's video is sponsored by "Bright Cellars,"
but more on them later.
All right, this one goes out to all our neighbors
in the Great White North up there
because "Mythical Kitchen,"
we have been ignoring the Canadian additions
to the culinary world for far too long.
Never before have we featured a Nanaimo bar,
a single Tiger Tail has never been inside this kitchen.
Not once have these hallowed halls seen a blueberry grunt.
But today all that changes because we're making poutine.
We're doing it "Mythical Kitchen" style.
A lot of Canadians probably be pretty mad about this one.
Sorry, not sorry.
I'll be breaking this down into three easy steps.
You can snag the time codes right there.
We also got a full written recipe down in the description.
You can also check out the latest episode
of our podcast hosted by me and Nicole,
it's called "A Hot Dog is a Sandwich."
You can get it wherever you get your podcasts.
Let's get cooking, eh?
Remember how I said Canadians are going to be mad?
Well, we're starting our poutine
with making our own fresh made corned beef.
Let me explain it so you understand.
So poutine if you are not familiar,
is the Canadian delicacy that are French fries covered
in a deeply darkened brown beef gravy and cheese curds.
They're like the squeaky cheese curds
almost similar to fresh mozzarella,
and a lot of people will say it is not poutine
if it has meat in it,
it has other stuff.
We're going to break almost every single rule of poutine.
Canada, come find me.
Anyways, so we're making our corned beef.
We are doing a Reuben-inspired poutine.
Reuben is a combination of corned beef,
sauerkraut, Swiss cheese, and Russian dressing.
One of my favorite things in the world
and I believe it is my birthright
as a Jewish American to eat this style of poutine.
So we're adding salt to a brine.
We're also adding coriander seeds.
We've got a bunch of aromatics.
Juniper berries and some clove.
Corned beef ain't got no corn in it.
A little bit of false advertising there.
It comes from like a weird German mistranslation.
It's essentially just like pickled beef
that is pickled with nitrate salt,
AKA pink curing salt, AKA Prague powder,
which to me sounds like a really cool improvised weapon.
So we're going to add that nitrate powder into there.
All that's going to do,
it's going to help give the beef a nice pink tinge.
It also is just going to deepen the preservation of it.
So like nitrate salts are literally just there
to stop bacterial growth on meat.
But now it gives it that tasty little pink snap.
Peppercorns.
Got a lot of stuff going in here.
Grab mustard seeds too.
We got a little bit of ground ginger
and then some whole allspice berries.
We got a cinnamon stick.
Jason Kidd, almost.
We're adding a cinnamon stick
and we got a couple of bay leaves going in there,
and now a little bit of brown sugar just for sweetness.
So what we're gonna do.
We're going to take just our big old giant beating stick
and we're going to add that to our,
can we say add that to the pot?
Like that's an ingredient?
Like there's yeah,
we're going to let the metal boil out.
Gives the beef a nice flavor.
That's how they did it in Cork, Ireland
back in the 18th century.
Trevor sent me a link to a really fantastic article
about the history of corned beef.
Salt tax was lower in Ireland than it was England,
so all the corned beef manufacturing ended up in Ireland.
Thank you, Trevor.
All right,
so we're just going to get all that salt
and all that sugar dissolved in the brine right there.
Then we're going to take all of our ice.
This is a brisket, AKA, a breast of cow.
You got chicken breast, you got cow breast.
Basically, it kind of like,
you know, rests right there on the cow.
Really fantastic.
Why am I holding these like that?
They were fine on the table but the camera can see it all.
Anyways, take that big old cow breast and put that in there.
Then I'm going to dump all this ice in there just
to cool it down 'cause we don't want
to cook the beef right now.
And then the most important part
of this is you gotta shimmy it.
This is shaken corned beef.
Actually, shaken beef is a great Vietnamese dish.
ADD's firing today, boys.
We're going to pop this.
We're cornin' our beef.
So we're going to let this sit for a minimum of five days,
a maximum of, I think kind of forever.
I mean, probably don't do it more than like two weeks.
We're not trying to dry age this beef.
We're gonna let it sit in the fridge.
We did ours for about seven days.
So let that happen.
Let the cornin' process take over
and then I'll see you in like a week.
All right, now that we've corned some beef,
I want to let you know that this portion
of today's video is sponsored by Bright Cellars.
Bright Cellars is a monthly wine subscription service
that helps you discover the wine you love
conveniently shipped directly to your door.
Now because I'm all about discovering flavors
that are new to me,
I love the way Bright Cellars features varieties
from around the globe and you can learn about them
from their handy dandy education cards
that are included with every wine.
I mean, so much of enjoying wine can feel like a snobby club
with rules and jargon that's hard to understand,
so I can really get behind how Bright Cellars breaks it down
to easy to recognize tasting notes,
suggested pairings,
best serving temperature, and origin.
Now whether you're a wine pro
or a novice who needs a little bit of nudgin',
taking Bright Cellars seven question quiz is a great way
to analyze your taste profile
and find wines that you're guaranteed to love.
Get this, get this!
If you don't like one of the bottles in your box,
Bright Cellars will replace it for free, no problem.
Now I'm super, super excited to try this here
Chenin Blanc Andaluz,
which just came in my latest Bright Cellars box.
It's a very cool South African wine.
That's my whole family's from
and I love the card specifies it's great
for brunch on the patio 'cause he know how much
I love my before noon wine.
And now Bright Cellars is giving you 50% off
your first six bottle box.
Click the link in the description to take the quiz,
get started,
and discover the wine that you love.
Thanks again to Bright Cellars
for sponsoring that portion of today's video.
Now back to the beef.
Hey, congratulations.
You've taken over a week to make a plate of fries.
So we got the corned beef out of here.
I'm just going to jump in and fish it out.
Ooh, that's cold.
We're going to give it a one, a two,
a how do you do.
We're going to slap that
into a deep casserole dish right here.
So we still want all the aromatics in here.
You think about corned beef,
you think about all those lovely flavors.
The juniper, the allspice, and the mustard.
We're going to take the brine.
We don't want to use this as our braising liquid
'cause it is a hecka salty.
Did I say hecka?
Oh, I've started talking incredibly Mormonly
since doing this cooking show.
We're going to strain off all of our aromatics in here.
We're going to get some fresh water braising.
So we're going to take that.
You got all that mustard seed,
all that cinnamon in there.
I'm just going to scatter this across our beef.
Now we got to get some root veg in there too
because we are eventually going
to be making a dark gravy out of this corned beef
to go on our poutine.
So we're going to scatter some celery in there.
We got a fair amount of onions.
Onion is French for onion.
We got a little bit of carrot.
Then now we got just a little bit more salt,
just to season up that liquid
'cause that's going to create our gravy.
Then we're going to palm heel strike a couple of garlics,
so rapid fire two hand actions.
Ai, ai, ai, ai.
Then we're gonna get between three and five cloves
of garlic on the floor.
Sorry.
Now we're just gonna pop that into our,
what is this called?
A beef loaf.
We're going to take some fresh water,
pop that on top.
What I'm going to do,
we want to cover it with enough water
to like barely, barely submerge.
It's not quite a braise,
not quite a slow boil,
and then we're going to wrap it
in just a whole lot of tin foil.
We're gonna cook this low and slow.
We're going six hours at 300 degrees.
If you thought the waiting a week to make fries was bad,
at this point, like the extra six hours,
what does that really do to you?
So pop all this tin foil over it,
into the oven, six hours she goes.
Occupy yourself, you know, pick up a new hobby.
Hey, you know, have you ever done crochet, scrimshaw?
Can't talk enough about how much scrimshaw changed my life.
That was a lie.
I'm sorry.
Never scrimshawed a single thing.
Is this leaking?
Am I leaking?
Uh oh, oh God.
Ah, just put it in the oven.
Who cares?
I'm gonna go ahead and take the corned beef out of the oven.
It's been seven days and six hours
since we started making these French fries.
Annalise has been slowly killing me
like death by a thousand cuts
with puns that only half make sense
if you slow it down and turn on the subtitles.
So thank you Annalise, for that,
for improving my life.
Let's take a look at this here corned beef.
This looks all nice and squishy.
Nice and squishy is what we're going for.
You want to poke your corned beef.
What you're looking for is to see if you can poke it.
I can.
So we gotta make a gravy now.
This is the bones of the poutine.
There is no poutine without gravy.
We're going to use all that braising liquid
from the corned beef.
Honestly, if give it a good huff,
you're getting all the aromatics in there.
You're getting that allspice, that cinnamon.
That smells freaky, that just smells good, man.
My dad used to make us corned beef and cabbage,
like all year around because we'd buy like 50 pounds
of corned beef around March 'cause it was real cheap
and we'd just keep it in the freezer.
So I absolutely love this dish.
Right now we're going to make a bit of a darker roux.
This isn't like a dark roux,
like the Cajun dark roux.
We're not taking it that deep
that you start a gumbo with,
where you like really burn the flour.
But we are trying to get a fair amount of toast on it.
So typically if you're making a cream sauce, right?
You want like what's called a blonde roux,
which is you're mixing the flour
with the butter just until it's like nice
and kind of rich enough to add the milk in there
with the flour being cooked.
What we're going to do is we're going
to crank the heat up on this
and we're going to stir it continually
until it becomes super brown.
That way when we add all
of this corned beef braising liquid to it,
it should turn a nice deep rich color
with a deep rich flavor.
Now we've got to wait a little bit more.
More scrimshaw.
Someone give me some whale bones and a little etcher.
I got a scene between a sailor
and a manatee I wanna scrimshaw.
Actually, I've been stirring this for about 10 to 12 minutes
and you see it's got this like awesome,
I dunno, chestnut brown color.
That looks really fantastic.
It smells, all nice and fragrant.
So now I'm going to take some of this corned beef liquid.
Slap that all over.
Get this burning liquid pot over here.
I'm just going to dip down my ladle into this,
get some broth.
Then we're gonna add it to this and stir it up,
and you see it should act like a roux
and just make it.
I said it should act like a roux,
it is a roux.
And then that's going to make it nice and thick.
Just gonna add liquid gradually.
You see it's becoming a lovely color right there.
You can always add a little bit of cornstarch to thicken it
but we do have all that roux in there as like a nice paste.
Now.
One sec, give me a second.
Gonna chop up some corned beef and get it in there.
I didn't plan on this.
Oh, didn't work.
Here we go.
This is a smarter way to do it.
Yeah, I'm going to drain some
of the beef juice a little bit.
That's some valuable beef juice, though.
I'm gonna start hacking into this.
You always want to cut across the grain on the corned beef.
Give it a try.
Oh God, it's really good.
Oh, oh yeah.
That's good stuff, man.
I mean, honestly, this is absolute.
I mean, aces corned beef.
It's cooked to perfection.
All the aromatics are in there.
It is super, super salty.
There we go.
We just want a little bit of meat in this.
We don't want to go like,
you know, this isn't a meat dish.
This is a fries dish.
This is poutine at the end of the day.
I'm just going to chop up a little bit of this corned beef,
just to get some texture,
some extra flavor in there.
I'm gonna add this to the gravy.
Another five minutes.
This is going to tighten up
and let's put our stamp on this poutine.
I got the Annalise disease now.
Depending on when you've joined in on the video,
we're on day eight or nine
of making a plate of French fries,
what would sell for $9 as an appetizer
before your normal meal comes.
Welcome back.
We got stuff.
Check this out.
This is a big 'ole brown corned beef gravy.
Super excited about that.
We got French fries.
These were made using the exclusive cook food good method
as seen in the cook food good series.
Not a ton of people watched it
but we're so very proud of the work that we do.
But now we gotta make our Russian dressing.
So I'm gonna start dumping a bunch of little bowls
into a bigger bowl while explaining
what is in the little bowls,
and how that comes together in the larger bowl.
You've seen a cooking show.
Kind of describes most of them.
This is mayonnaise.
It is white.
That's all I got for that one.
Russian dressing, very typical on a Reuben,
very big in delis.
I love getting a plate of latkes
and then asking for Russian dressing on the side.
That is my absolute favorite guilty pleasure thing.
I used to end up at a lot of Jewish delis
at like two in the morning in various states of being.
We add some pickles in there.
We've got some very finely diced red onion as well.
And I would get the chopped liver plate.
I'd get latkes and I'd get a pastrami Reuben.
Then I would just mash that all together.
And two cups of black coffee.
That is the ultimate deli order.
Maybe a knish when I'm feeling extra frosty.
A little bit of Worcestershire sauce,
a little bit of beet juice, just for color.
It's gonna make it nice and pink.
A little bit of tomato paste.
Ketchup is typically not in a Russian dressing,
but a lot of people think it is.
I'm adding tomato paste in there.
A lot of people use chili sauce,
which is like this old school condiment
that almost nobody has any more,
really similar to ketchup.
And then black pepper,
paprika.
I dumped the paprika into the red wine vinegar.
Then we're going to add vinegar in there
and then I'm just gonna stir this up.
This is gonna be the nice condiment to our poutine.
We got our Russian dressing.
This is tasting delicious.
Wow.
Did I fool them?
All right, I'm going to take these fries.
I got these fries.
We added them to cold oil and then we just heated it up.
Link in the below, link in the thing.
I'm going to kind of like take some
of these here Jarlsberg cheese cubes.
Jarlsberg is great, man.
It's like the most Swiss tasting Swiss.
Oh, now we're pissing off the Swiss people.
They're gonna come in there and be like in Switzerland,
we just call it cheese,
and I'm like I get it.
So we're going to add all these cheese cubes to it.
We want to kind of keep 'em whole
but get 'em in the oven so they melt in that residual heat
and then the gravy's just going to blanket it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Some thick logs of fries.
Shh, quiet, quiet!
All right, we're going to pop this in the oven, 500 degrees.
Just like five minutes,
just to get that cheese sweatin'.
Then I'll be, I'll be back, you'll see.
You'll see me.
I'll be around.
Do you think any other food tuber chews as much
as I do while they're trying to host the cooking show?
Half the show is me eating food and just being like,
thanks for stopping by.
I'm gonna take this out of the oven.
Oh, this is actually looking exactly how I wanted.
We still have like big old pockets of cheese.
That's something I love about poutine.
You don't just get like the blankets of cheese on there.
You get those big old fatty pockets of curds,
except we got Jarlsberg.
Seriously, big Jarlsberg cheese fan.
Now I'm gonna take all that brown corned beef gravy
and just slather that all over the fries.
Yeah, here we go.
Oh yes.
It looks like dog food, that's okay.
Now I'm gonna take some little pockets of sauerkraut.
Sauerkraut is one of my favorite absolute condiments.
I mean, it's essentially kind of pickled fermented cabbage.
I'm just gonna kind of dot this around the whole situation.
You're gonna get all that acid cutting through the fat
of that beef right there.
Also, Jarlsberg 'cause it's not a salty cheese, right?
Like we have a lot of salt in that gravy
coming from the sauerkraut,
coming from all over this plate, frankly.
We've got sauerkraut on there
and now we're gonna take some of this Russian dressing
that may or may not come out of this small tube.
It's like trying to pee out a kidney stone.
There we go.
Get that Russian dressing all over there.
I want to suck it out of the hole,
but I shouldn't.
Do it.
I got it, it was a pickle.
I'm taking the cap off.
All right, great, I got that Russian dressing.
Now I'm going to take a couple of pickled mustard seeds.
You know, for garnish.
We haven't garnished this enough.
Shh, I need to concentrate.
Now we can take some green things.
You know, just for kind of a plausible deniability
that there's some color on this.
So here we go, like get some little greens on there.
This is fresh dill.
Goes a lot to be on French fries sometimes.
But other times as well.
What I saying is dill go good with pickles!
A couple of these little bad boys there.
This is like a surrealist painting.
This is like when Dali was all whacked out
of his mind and he was just like,
mountains are melting.
And they're like, well, I'm sorry?
That's what this is.
It's like a plate of food
that's just been thrown in like a dishwasher.
Well, I'm pretty proud of that.
That looks honestly good as heck.
Let's eat this damned thing.
I can't wait to dig in.
Was that natural?
I feel insane with this on.
I'm going to give this a try
and then we're gonna spork Nicole.
Oh yeah, get all of it in there.
I got a nice cheese curd.
I'm gonna have to throat the fry
to get to the cheese.
Hm.
Honestly, I mean this is really incredible.
I can't wait to spork my friend Nicole.
Fellow tribes person.
Would you like to eat this here Joutine?
I sure do, that looks so unbelievable.
Okay, where do you want to bite?
You want me to go from the middle?
No, I mean, you are the master of whatever.
Oh my God, Josh.
Hold on, I got it.
No Nicole, I got it.
No, no, that's too much.
Josh, I can't do that.
This is good, Nicole.
I hate you.
No you don't.
You gotta, there's a fry.
Get the tip of the fry.
Got some on the hat.
Hold on, let me get a clean fry.
Can I get some, I just want some sauerkraut.
Yeah, I'll get you a clean bite of kraut.
Is that your pinky finger?
Yeah, take it off the kraut pinky.
Mm.
These French fries are so fluffy.
That delicious corned beef flavor is just married
throughout the whole thing.
That little pop of dill.
That little pop of mustard really, really helps carry it,
and that Russian dressing is really good.
It's the Russian dressing, right?
Mm hm.
Can you give me a chunk of corned beef?
Or try?
Yeah, wait, hold on.
Oh no, you don't have to do all that.
Oh, I was, oh my God.
You're a monster.
I got it.
You're like Edward Scissorhands.
Joshward Sporkerhands.
You don't have to do all that!
I got it.
Josh, oh no.
It would be simpler if I just had the spork.
You don't have to eat it.
Are you sure?
You can if you want to.
Oh, there's a little bit for me.
Delicious.
Nicole, thank you so much
and thank you all so much
for stopping by the "Mythical Kitchen."
We've got new episodes for you every week.
We got new episodes our podcast,
"A Hot Dog is a Sandwich," every Wednesday
wherever you get your podcasts.
Hit us up on Instagram @mythicalkitchen
with pictures of your mythical dishes
under #dreamsbecomefood,
just like Mark did.
Mark made the barbecue mac and cheese Crunchwrap
literally the day that we dropped it on YouTube shorts,
hashtag RIP.
It looks incredible.
He says is it's kid's favorite dish now,
which really, that's what this is all about.
I mean, making food for the people that you love.
Nicole's getting that sweet under chin shot, eh?
Anyways, thank you all.
Be like Mark.
Post under #dreamsbecomefood.
Submit in the link below to have a chance to be featured.
Bye!
Ah, it's an endoscopy.
Oh no, that goes somewhere else.
You can cook up your own feast
while wearing the Mythical Kitchen Apron,
available now at mythical.com.
